---
title: "Bio"
meta_title: "Bio - Graham H. Jensen"
description: "Currently, I work as a Research Officer for the [Digital Research Alliance of Canada](https://www.alliancecan.ca/). Previously, I was Assistant Director and Digital Humanities Research Lead in the [Electronic Textual Cultures Lab](https://etcl.uvic.ca/) at the University of Victoria. My research interests include digital humanities, twentieth and twenty-first-century literatures in Canada, literary modernism, and literature and religion. For more about me, please see my bio or read about my teaching, research, and DH projects."
image: "/images/graham-h-jensen_small.jpg"
draft: false
---

Hi there! My name is Graham Jensen, and I'm a Research Officer with the [Digital Research Alliance of Canada](https://www.alliancecan.ca/). Previously, I was an Assistant Director and Digital Humanities Research Lead in the [Electronic Textual Cultures Lab (ETCL)](https://etcl.uvic.ca/) at the University of Victoria (UVic). At UVic, I also worked in as a Mitacs Accelerate Industrial Postdoctoral Fellow in Open, Collaborative Scholarship (Arts & Humanities) and [Implementing New Knowledge Environments (INKE)](https://inke.ca/) Postdoctoral Fellow in Open Social Scholarship, as well as a Limited Term Assistant Professor and SSHRC Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of English. In 2021, I was a [finalist for the SSHRC Impact Talent Award](https://www.canada.ca/en/innovation-science-economic-development/news/2021/11/canadas-top-social-sciences-and-humanities-researchers-honoured-for-extraordinary-achievements.html), which recognizes “the most accomplished social sciences and humanities researchers in Canada.” But I'd like to think I haven't peaked yet.

I have leadership and research experience in multiple disciplinary contexts. I thrive on building positive, mutually beneficial partnerships and relationships across knowledge domains and sectors, which I have done both at the national and international level in my work with diverse stakeholders ranging from research communities, librarians, administrators, technology professionals, students, and community members. Ever the optimist, I believe that knowledge is a public good and that we can both critique and create better ways of doing and supporting research by working together to collectively reimagine existing structures, systems, and methodologies.

My research interests span twentieth and twenty-first-century literatures in Canada, literary modernism, literature and religion, digital humanities, and open scholarship (with more specific interests in such topics as digital critical archives, digital research infrastructure, knowledge diversity, digital humanities publishing and pedagogy, research data management, community engagement, religious and cultural pluralization, unorthodox forms of religious expression in literature, “late” modernisms, cross-border influences between Canada and the US, periodical studies and little-magazine manifestos, epiphanies, poetry about poetry, the Künstlerroman tradition, alcohol in modernist fiction, and much more). My most recent scholarship—on digital platforms, knowledge commons, multilingualism and language diversity in digital research infrastructure, and the preservation of knowledge in the humanities and social sciences—has been featured in venues such as _Digital Humanities Quarterly_ and the _Journal of Electronic Publishing_.

I am Principal Investigator of the [Canadian Modernist Magazines Project (CMMP)](https://modernistmags.ca/). The CMMP serves as a public-facing virtual research platform for those interested in reading, analyzing, or teaching Canadian modernist literature. With the support of more than ten partner institutions in Canada and the United States, the CMMP has digitized a selection of canonical and non-canonical Canadian modernist “little magazines,” beginning with _Neith_ (1903-4), _Le Nigog_ (1918), _Preview_ (1942-44), and _First Statement_ (1942-45). Other [DH projects](/dh) include _Mapping Religion in the Global Anglophone Novel_, the _Humanities and Social Sciences Commons_, and the _Mary Butts Letters Project_.

I am also the author of _Unorthodox Modernisms: Varieties of Religious Expression in Twentieth-Century Canadian Poetry_ (under advance contract with University of Toronto Press). This scholarly monograph is a revised version of my dissertation, “Canadian Modernist Poetry and the Rise of Personal Religions,” which was the recipient of the Dalhousie Doctoral Thesis Award and Malcolm Ross Thesis Award. It examined the notion of “personal religion”—advanced most memorably by American philosopher and psychologist William James—in relation to the mid-twentieth century poetry and unpublished writings of four major Canadian poets: E.J. Pratt, Margaret Avison, Louis Dudek, and P.K. Page. Some of my findings from this study were published in _Further Directions in William James and Literary Studies_ and _University of Toronto Quarterly_. [My research](/research) has also appeared in _The Edinburgh Companion to Modernism, Myth and Religion_, _Canadian Digital Humanities_, _Interdisciplinary Digital Engagement in Arts & Humanities_, _Pop! Public. Open. Participatory_, _English Studies in Canada_, _Canadian Poetry: Studies, Documents, Reviews_, the _Routledge Encyclopedia of Modernism_, _Eludamos: Journal for Computer Game Culture_, and other venues. I am also working on a critical edition of Louis Dudek’s multi-volume long poem _Continuation_ (under advance contract with University of Ottawa Press).

As an instructor, I have [designed and taught courses](/teaching) in Canadian literature, modern Canadian poetry (ca. 1920-1970), American modernism, [Alcohol in Modernist Fiction](https://engl480.ghjensen.com/) (British, American, and Canadian), as well as an introductory course on prose and fiction. In the classroom, where I channel the nerdy zeal and curiosity of Rick Steves, I emphasize technology-enhanced and multimodal learning experiences, creative assignments, and interactive, respectful discussions facilitated in a variety of small- and large-group formats.

I like travel, food, founding collectives based around food (R.I.P., Halifax Gastronomic Society!—but hello, Boys Who Brunch), and getting entirely too engrossed in web design, spreadsheets, and Premier League soccer.